# History

Les-Tilleuls.coop is a **Coopérative** (SARL SCOP) , owned and self-managed by its workers, co-founded by Kévin Dunglas, Joad Martin and François-Henri Vasseur in december 2011.

**Divided into 3 poles (development, expertise and training) and API, web and cloud specialists**, Les-Tilleuls.coop's employees design, audit and develop web and mobile applications as well as e-commerce platforms .

Creators of the **API Platform** framework, the collaborators of Les-Tilleuls.coop are authors of multiple publications, and actively contribute to free software such as PHP.net or Symfony. The languages and technologies JavaScript (React, Vue), PHP, Docker and Kubernetes also have few secrets for them.
Les-Tilleuls.coop puts its skills at the service of SMEs as well as large accounts like **Adeo (formerly Leroy Merlin), Orange, Decathlon, Citiz, Alice’s Garden, 24 Sèvres and even France Télévisions**.

Les-Tilleuls.coop is also recognized as a **professional training center specializing in software development**. The training courses provided at Masterclass by Les-Tilleuls.coop are for all public and levels, and are eligible for funding by organizations (OPCA, AFPL).

# Social project

As a cooperative company, Les-Tilleuls.coop is based on a social project built on strong values. This aims to put people back at the heart of the company around 5 main principles:

## Self-management

Les-Tilleuls.coop is a cooperative company (SARL Scop) owned at 99% and in equal parts by its employees. Its governance is democratic: everyone participates in decision-making. After a maximum of one year of service with Les-Tilleuls.coop, all employees are called upon to become partners of the cooperative and co-owners of its capital. The company we work in is really our company. Each employee finds fulfillment in their activity, innovates, carries out projects, makes their voice heard and invests fully in customer satisfaction.

## Social equity

At Les-Tilleuls.coop, it is normal that the money earned through the efforts, thoroughness, imagination or creativity of each person is fairly distributed among the employees. Wages are decided collectively, they are fair and reward each worker at his fair value. The profits generated by the company are distributed among all employees at the end of each year.

## The social and solidarity economy

As a Scop, our company is a structure of the Social and Solidarity Economy. We are members of the Union Régionale des Scop du Nord - Pas-de-Calais - Picardie, and through this of APES 59/62 (Actors for a Solidarity Economy) and CRES 59/62. We are also members of ANIS (Association Nord Internet Solidaire) and approved "Solidarity Company".
We try to collaborate as much as possible with other social and solidarity enterprises and help to develop cooperatives (Scop and Scic).

## Knowledge sharing

We design most of our applications and websites on the basis of free software to which we contribute.

## The fight against exclusion and discrimination

Within our company, respect for others, tolerance and diversity are central values, promoted and defended by all our employees. We refuse to work on projects of a racist, sexist, homophobic nature or which may hinder individual and collective freedoms (registration, surveillance, etc.).
To find out more about SCOPs, do not hesitate to consult [this article from our blog](https://les-tilleuls.coop/fr/blog/article/qu-est-ce-qu-une-scop) .

# Les-Tilleuls.coop on the web

In order to stay informed of our latest news, we invite you to subscribe to the cooperative's Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon, Facebook, and Instagram accounts. You can also check out our blog.
If you have any questions about these media, we invite you to contact Cécile at cecile@les-tilleuls.coop.
